<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!--
###############################################################################
##
## vim: set ts=2 sts=2 ft=xml tw=90 sw=2: -*- html -*-
##
## $Id: faq.dbk,v 1.7 2003/08/27 10:50:02 eelcol Exp $
##
## Module:         Frequently Asked Questions
## Description:    All the questions you should have read before you asked them
##
## Copyright (C) 2001-2003 giFT project (gift.sourceforge.net)
##
## This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
## under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
## Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option) any
## later version.
##
## This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
## WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
## MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
## General Public License for more details.
##
###############################################################################
-->
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC '-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN'
  'file:///usr/share/sgml/docbook/dtd/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd'>
<article class='faq'>
	<articleinfo>
		<title>giFT FAQ</title>
		<author><firstname>Eelco</firstname><surname>Lempsink</surname></author>
		<abstract>
			<para>
				All the questions you should have read before you asked them
			</para>
		</abstract>
	</articleinfo>
	<sect1>
		<title>Generic</title>
		<qandaset defaultlabel="qanda">
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>What is giFT?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						giFT is a modular daemon capable of abstracting the communication between the
						end user and specific filesharing protocols (peer-to-peer or otherwise). The
						giFT project differs from many other similar projects in that it is a
						distribution of a standalone platform-independent daemon, a library for
						client/frontend development, and our own homegrown network, OpenFT.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>How do I get giFT?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						You can download the latest release from our 
						<ulink url="http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=34618">Sourceforge File list</ulink>,
						and (for most UNIX platforms) follow the instructions from the 
						<ulink url="http://gift.sourceforge.net/docs.php?document=install-unix.html">Installation Guide</ulink>.
						Please note that downloading giFT means the daemon (<command>giftd</command>),
						you'll want to download at least one network plugin, and a 
						<ulink url='http://gift.sourceforge.net/clients.php'>client</ulink>.
					</para>
					<para>
						There are also packages available in 
						<ulink url="http://www.debian.org">Debian</ulink> unstable.  You do a
						<command>apt-get install gift</command>.  Other distributions might have
						packages available too.
					</para>
				</answer>
				<answer>
					<para>
						For <emphasis role="strong">Windows</emphasis> the installation procedure is a
						little more complicated.  As the Windows maintainer hasn't really been very
						active lately (*cough* same could be said for the doc writer *cough*), the
						Windows version is currently broken.  We could use help fixing this!
					</para>
				</answer>
				<answer>
					<para>
						For <emphasis role="strong">Mac OS X</emphasis> you should use 
						<ulink url="http://fink.sourceforge.net">fink</ulink>.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>What's with the name?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						As you might know there's an other project named GIFT as well (note the
						capitalization though).  The 
						<ulink url="http://www.gnu.org/software/gift/">GNU Image Finding Tool</ulink> 
						that is.
					</para>
					<para>
						The strange capitalization is from back when the giFT project still was a
						'generic interface to FastTrack' and (a little later) 'giFT isn't FastTrack'.
						When the encryption was changed which effectively locked giFT out of the
						FastTrack network (used by KaZaA, and at that time Grokster and Morpheus), the
						project moved in another direction, becoming what it is now: giFT: internet
						File Transfer.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>Why do you use a daemon?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						It creates an easy way for people to focus their time on frontends instead of
						all of so much networking code. Also, if the daemon changes, all of the
						frontends will still function the same as they had before. This also makes it
						so we don't end up with 20 incompatible protocols flying around as standalone
						clients.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>What's your history (so far)?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Development to create a Linux client to KaZaA was our initial goal. After a
						lot of reverse engineering and packet sniffing, a group of talented developers
						which became known as "the givers" stumbled onto our project (at the time
						"kazaatux").
					</para>
					<para>
						Within a few weeks, we had a working daemon that could connect to and search
						the KaZaA network.  Shortly after, KaZaA released a new version of their
						client which eventually led to the breaking of what we now call giFT.
					</para>
					<para>
						After the permanent departure of the givers, the giFT team started moving
						development into a new direction; foremost was the desire to have a completely
						open, completely free peer to peer network modeled in the image of FastTrack.
					</para>
					<para>
						Thus OpenFT was born. giFT was moved to a new plugin architecture which would
						allow the creation of plugins that would make it easy for one client to be
						compatible with any number of networks.  The first of these plugins were to be
						OpenFT.  After a while there came a Gnutella plugin, and even a 
						<ulink url="http://developer.berlios.de/projects/gift-fasttrack/">FastTrack plugin</ulink>!
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
		</qandaset>
	</sect1>
	<sect1>
		<title>Contribute</title>
		<qandaset defaultlabel="qanda">
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>How can I help?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Use your special skills! If you can code (e.g. a new network plugin), design a
						nifty GUI or are specialized in Public Relations, or whatever, 
						<ulink url="http://gift.sourceforge.net/contact.php">contact us</ulink> and
						ask what you can do.  Also, clear bug reports, patches and more documentation
						are always welcome.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry id='crash'>
				<question><para>Aargh, <command>giftd</command> crashed! What now?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						You've most likely found a bug.  Try upgrading to the most recent release, and
						if you did that already please write a clear bug report.
					</para>
					<para>
						If you're a developer you could also try the most recent CVS version (it could
						have been fixed already). Make sure you know how to use gdb, or else you
						probably won't be very helpful.
					</para>
					<para><emphasis>
						Please make sure you report the bug to the right project.  We are not
						responsible for 3rd party network plugins, and <command>giftd</command> uses
						quite a few libs for metadata extraction, a few of those libs tend to be kind
						of buggy.  If you're not sure the bug you found is purely giFT's, don't
						report.
					</emphasis></para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>I want to make an OpenFT client! How do I do that?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						No, you don't. You want to make a giFT client. Through giFT, OpenFT can be
						used. Otherwise you'll have to include a framework just like giFT in your
						client, and that would be like reinventing the wheel.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>I would like to make a frontend/client/gui, where to start?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Very good, but please note that there are already lots of 
						<ulink url="http://gift.sourceforge.net/clients.php">clients</ulink>, just do
						a search on <ulink url="http://sourceforge.net">SourceForge</ulink> for
						example.  In other words, make sure your client is actually different from all
						the others, and it's "killer feature" is not something you can easily build
						into an already mature client.
					</para>
					<para>
						That said, there are roughly two ways to make a client.  You can use libgift
						(see <filename>lib/example.c</filename> for an example, or you can communicate
						with the 
						<ulink url="http://gift.sourceforge.net/docs.php?document=interface.html">Interface Protocol</ulink>
						over a socket.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry id='plugin'>
				<question><para>I want to make a new network plugin, can you give me some hints?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Network plugins work through libgiftproto and libgift.  Unfortunately, there
						is no tutorial for writing a network plugin, but you can generate doxygen
						documentation from the sources, and look at other plugins to find out how it
						is supposed to work.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
		</qandaset>
	</sect1>
	<sect1>
		<title>Problems</title>
		<qandaset defaultlabel="qanda">
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>Hey, giFT won't connect! (Before I updated it was fine) What's up?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Aha, first of all, giFT itself isn't connecting to anything, so you probably
						mean OpenFT won't connect.  Due to heavy development sometimes new OpenFT
						versions aren't backwards compatible.  Removing your nodes file
						(<filename>~/.giFT/OpenFT/nodes</filename>) will usually help.  Removing it
						will cause OpenFT's node cache to be updated with the installed version of the
						nodes file.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>Hmm, <command>giftd</command> crashed, what now?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						See <link linkend='crash'>this question</link>.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>Help! Why does <command>giftd</command> almost bring my system to a halt?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Ah, you're running <command>giftd</command> for the first time...
						<command>giftd</command> is calculating the checksums ('hashing') of all your
						files the network plugins need to uniquely identify them.  Also, metadata is
						extracted.  The next time you start <command>giftd</command> only the files
						that were added or changed will be hashed.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>I run <command>giftd</command>, but nothing happens?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Indeed.  giftd is just the daemon.  You need a 
						<ulink url="http://gift.sourceforge.net/clients.php">client</ulink> and
						network plugins to make stuff happen.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>It complains about my setup being incomplete, I don't get it?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Run <command>gift-setup</command>.  If you've already done this, do it again,
						and try to read <emphasis>all</emphasis> the questions this time, the defaults
						won't get it running.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
		</qandaset>
	</sect1>
	<sect1>
		<title>Network plugins</title>
		<qandaset defaultlabel="qanda">
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>What networks are supported?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Of course there's OpenFT, our own homegrown network, but there are also
						plugins for Gnutella (distributed by us too) and 
						<ulink url="http://developer.berlios.de/projects/gift-fasttrack/">FastTrack (KaZaA)</ulink>.
						A plugin for
						<ulink url="http://developer.berlios.de/projects/gift-opennap/">OpenNap</ulink>
						is in development.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>I want to make a new network plugin, how do I do that?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						See <link linkend='plugin'>this question</link>
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>Wow, KaZaA on Linux/Mac OS X how did you guys manage that?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						We didn't ;-)  The 
						<ulink url="http://developer.berlios.de/projects/gift-fasttrack/">FastTrack plugin</ulink>
						is a 3rd party plugin.  It was made after a lot of reverse engineering.  You
						can check #gift-fasttrack @ irc.freenode.net for more information.
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para>(I'm doing a thesis on P2P networks) is there documentation on how OpenFT works?</para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>
						Unfortunately not.  In short, it's a hierarchical, clustering p2p network,
						with USER nodes (normal users), SEARCH nodes (for searching) and INDEX nodes
						(stats and SEARCH node lists).  Every USER has a PARENT node (which is a
						SEARCH node) through which it searches.  For more information, UTSL :-) (And
						in case of writing a thesis, search for the others.)
					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
		</qandaset>
	</sect1>
</article>
<!-- template:
			<qandaentry>
				<question><para></para></question>
				<answer>
					<para>

					</para>
				</answer>
			</qandaentry>
-->
